if musicians wanted to genuinely be
controversial
why not make a song about redistributing
wealth and property that would be a
really controversial song
obviously that's not a song that would
ever be played on the radio
not a song that would ever be allowed to
reach
the ears of the mainstream population
because
that is not a theme in a song
that is allowed to exist in our minds
and we are not allowed to consider the
concept of
weight there is a minuscule amount of
people that have hoarded the majority of
property and
money on our planet and they are not
really sharing it with anyone else and
do they really
have the right to hoard all of this
money and property and is this fair
and are we okay with that our mind is
not even allowed to go there and to
think
whether that is a good idea or not and i
do believe that i mean
it's a very random example that i'm
giving but
you can totally if you're a good
audience if you are a talented artist
you can definitely make a song about
that and make it a hit i just
i can't get myself into that left wing
conspiracy theory mindset
i don't know why i am not morally
opposed to land redistribution
it could be a very positive thing for
canada it could be a very positive thing
for greece
the same way it was a positive thing for
south korea
and cambodia but what i'm opposed to
is the left-wing rhetoric about land
redistribution
land redistribution does not create a
more equal society
what land redistribution demonstrates to
us is the naked
natural fact of how inequality emerges
from equal starting conditions again and
again and again
not here to debate whether or not
redistribution of land ownership
could become a top 10 hit record that's
a great idea
shout out to kristen leo make it happen
we started drafting lyrics for hits
we're like hey we can take the beat from
[ __ ] and we can record new lyrics on it
talking about redistributional land
ownership
why not you kristen step up get on the
mic it doesn't even have to be a parody
you can do a deadpan serious song
on redistribution of land ownership
we're not here to debate
whether or not there's a conspiracy in
the music industry that would prevent
you from having a hit song about
redistribution of energy i i just
i can't get myself into that left wing
conspiracy theory mindset
i don't know why in fact i kind of
suspect that grimes
might come out with a song on exactly
that topic in the next six months you
know i think there are plenty of
left-wing artists who tried you know
when there were people like bob dylan
there have been some there have been
some examples in the past there's been
some john lennon songs that leads that
radical but that we're hits on
so i it's a weak argument we're not here
to talk about
landis redistribution a musical theme
in the music industry we're here to talk
about land redistribution as such
if you've been watching my channel for a
long time you know
not my first video made on this topic
maybe the fourth maybe the fifth
it would be very hard for me to put
together a playlist of all the times
talking about this
because it came up in passing when i was
talking about other other subjects any
real
any super fans of the photographic
memory send in suggestions
we could put together a playlist not the
first video minute topic and this is not
going to be the last
people keep asking about this i think
for a really good reason
redistribution of land ownership is
fundamentally
pro-capitalist and yet it is
misapprehended
by shallow self-indulgent poorly
educated people like kristin leo
as if it were anti-capitalists and that
makes it interesting
even if it were a terrible idea that
really makes it very interesting worth
talking about
and you know what as it happens it's not
such a terrible idea
it really is worth talking about and
it's worth learning
from empirical examples in the real
history of the world
south korea south korea is as
pro-american
and pro-capitalist as it gets land risk
land okay now i got to put in that it
land redistribution was a crucial aspect
of the transition
from the japanese occupy occupation
period to the pro-american period
they're after when they were liberated
from
japan 100 percent pro-capitalist
in principle and in practice cambodia
you ever heard you ever heard of this
small country in southeast asia cambodia
land redistribution was not part of
communism in cambodia communism is about
centralizing the ownership of the means
of production you heard of this
right communism took land ownership away
from everyone and in many cases the poor
suffered much more than the rich when
the lamb was taking women babe you got
the book
this is a fantastic book i haven't read
yet but i heard a long interview with
the uh with the author
recommend this book i recommend it
unread on the basis of the interview but
i bought a copy
that's the tragic terrible history of
what happened when the communist party
in china
took land ownership away from everyone
when they lost faith in communism
in cambodia when they lost faith in the
centralized ownership of the means of
production when communism broke down and
fell to pieces
after more than one million people died
maybe it's more than two million
topic for another video what did they do
they took parcels of the land and they
handed it out to you and you and you and
you in theory everybody in the country
got a parcel of land and became a land
owner and a farmer
do you think that's the end of the story
do you think we can just hit stop and
say
and that's it south korea sold all of
its problems forever
there were never poor people in south
korea ever again there were never poor
people and rich people there was no
inequality because they redistributed
landers do you think that's what
happened in cambodia i think yes and
when i lived in cambodia there were no
poor people and there were no rich
people and nobody oppressed him because
they redistributed land
no
what i'm fighting against here is not
one
simple misconception but the habit of
mind that resists
engaging in a full life cycle
analysis right the left wing mind
insists on saying if you just take away
land from the rich and give it to the
poor
problem solve end of story there's a
refusal
to think ahead as several more dominoes
fall
in sequence there's a refusal to think
ahead step by step
over the next few years over the next
two decades over the next few
generations
what are the consequences and again it's
not all hypothetical
what were the consequences in south
korea what were the consequences in
cambodia and guess what
to quote odb this ain't something new
that just came out of nowhere no
this is something old it's in aristotle
it's in the hebrew bible both
aristotle and the old testament contain
discussions of how to cope with the fact
that with
time even if you distribute land equally
to everyone
land ownership will become more and more
unequal
meaning what a small number of farmers
become wealthier and wealthier
and buy up the land of the larger number
of farmers
who get poorer and poorer there are
winners and losers
even if you regard winning and losing as
random and arbitrary and not linked to
your own personal virtue in any way
in agriculture especially this tends to
be the case
some people just make decisions that
result in them wanting to opt out of
farming they decide hey you know what
i'd rather sell my farm
take this money and pay for university
tuition so i can become a dentist or
they say i'm going to take my pharma
i'm going to go to the bank and ask for
a loan so that my own son
can go to university and become a
dentist and get out of farming that's
maybe
the happiest way that poor people end up
losing their land and the rich
take over there are so many more unhappy
possibilities someone decides hey you
know what
too many people are already farming
mangoes there's no money in mango
farming
i'm going to cut down my mango trees and
start farming garlic i can wait make way
more money for
farming little they know there's a new
free trade agreement
between thailand cambodia and china
all of a sudden chinese garlic enters
the market the value of garlic local
locally goes down chinese garlic is one
tenth the price of locally farmed garlic
within
thailand and cambodia something totally
out of your control something you didn't
foresee coming
and of course with agriculture
ultimately it is man against the sun
man against the seasons man against the
rain clouds and the weather
some people are lucky and some people
are unlucky
even without getting into the fact that
yes some people become alcoholics
some people become gamblers some people
are stupid or just
don't have the knack for farming that
other people have
so there are winners and losers if you
start with a map
divided into cute little squares of
equal size plots of land and you give
everyone an equal piece of land
within just a few years within just five
years
just think as the dominoes fall a few
people make bad bets a few people make
bad decisions
a few farmers go broke and then other
farmers buy their land there you go the
successful farmer in one year can double
the size of his land
within five years we have 10 times 20
times as much land
as the other farmers and one by one
there are other farmers going bankrupt
when i was working in cambodia i did
research on people who came down with
serious illnesses including tuberculosis
there were people who sold all their
farmland
just to have access to medical care
because they were very slowly dying of
tuberculosis most
most forms of tuberculosis they don't
kill you quick
so you have you know one family that
came down with tuberculosis
they end up bankrupt and landless and
there's another family
they'll say they weren't any better at
farming just the luck of the draw they
didn't get tb
and they end up doubling the amount of
land they have and in the real world
if we were to redistribute land
ownership here in canada
right now there are huge corporations
like cargill
that can come along and say hey this is
a cute little plot of land you got here
what's your plan you're going to build a
log cabin you're going to build a hut
you're going to spend 10 20 years of
your life trying to get some pear trees
to grow fruit
and like maybe earn back the cost of the
investment and building the log out
maybe
if you sell your land to us we're this
huge heartless corporation
we can do mass monocrop agriculture we
can use the land more efficiently
more profitably you can move to
vancouver move into a condominium
maybe put yourself through school and
become a dentist you can have
very rapidly if you redistribute land
ownership in a mature economy like
canada
a huge percentage of people you give
land to will give that land away
they will sell it to a corporation that
can do mass monocrop agriculture that
has the technology and the organization
to do large-scale
dehumanizing not at all quaint
commercially competitive agriculture
and also people just turn around and
hand it to the bank they say oh great
thanks for this plot of land but i
always wanted to be a barber
so i'm gonna you know offer this as
collateral to the bank and then i'm
gonna move to the city and open my
barber shop or whatever the hell it is
they want to do
these are fundamental reasons why pretty
much all governments in the western
world look at redistributing
income redistributing money
redistributing access to opportunities
like scholarships to go to university
for free instead of redistributing land
ownership
because incredibly few people have the
husba frankly
to go out and work their fingers to the
bone trying to make a plot of land
even feed themselves let alone
profitable and effective in feeding the
whole society
how many of you in the audience really
want to go back to school and
many of you you might want to go back to
school to study aristotle now that i've
told you this fascinating thing about
them
but you probably don't want to go back
to texas a
m you probably don't want to study the
hard science of agriculture
and put yourself through the paces of
learning how to take dirt
and rock and turn it into a profitable
farm
it's not easy i say again i am not
morally opposed to land redistribution
it could be a very positive thing for
canada
greece the same way it was a positive
thing
for south korea and cambodia but
what i'm opposed to is the left-wing
rhetoric
about land redistribution land
redistribution
does not create and more equal society
what land redistribution demonstrates to
us
is the naked natural fact of how
inequality
emerges from equal starting conditions
again and again and again
that's why even aristotle and even the
old testament
talked about land redistribution as
something you'd have to do every 50
years
or every 10 years or every 5 years if
you really wanted
to have an equal society but what
kind of equal society do you really want
to have
even aristotle was more sophisticated
than these left wingers
do you really want equality of land
ownership
living in a republic where everyone
grows their own lentils
or do you want to have equality in
political power
is that what matters the equality of
political rights
the equality of educational opportunity
that wasn't too sophisticated for
aristotle to get his head around
2000 years ago here we are in the year
in some ways still catching up
with aristotle